[DataGridPro] Server side data source lazy loading (#13878)
mui/mui-x: docs/data/data-grid/server-side-data/index.md

The `GridDataSourceCacheDefault` is used by default which is a simple in-memory cache that stores the data in a plain object. It can be seen in action in the [demo above](#with-data-source).

> ### Improving the cache-hit ratio

Reviewer: This sounds to me a nice candidate for an FAQ section, wdyt about adding a FAQ page under "Server side data" section and add this as the first FAQ?

Author: I don't mind. Either that or adding it to the Data Grid FAQ
we don't have FAQ pages per feature yet
@samuelsycamore what would be your advice?

Reviewer: I remember having a discussion where it was proposed to have per-section FAQs where it makes sense to avoid polluting the main FAQ with feature-specific details. Anyhow, @samuelsycamore's take would be helpful here. 👍

Reviewer 2: I'm not a fan of FAQ pages for this kind of content—these pages often feel random and disorganized, and they become a catch-all for content that hasn't found a more specific home. If there's a common use case that needs to be documented, then there's probably a better location for it within existing documentation already, or else we should consider creating a new page. 

In this case, it seems to me like this material is already in the right place: immediately following the section where it would be the most relevant. If this is a common situation that users face, then we should solve the problem on the same page where we introduce the feature so they don't have to navigate to a different page.

All that said, this is becoming a pretty massive document. Maybe there's a better way to subdivide the info by splitting some of the content off into new, more specific pages?

Author: I have added an [issue](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/15638) to address this
I think that caching could be its own page at this point
@samuelsycamore feel free to add your ideas to the issue

> To increase the cache hit rate, Data Grid splits `getRows` results into chunks before storing them in cache. For the next request one or more chunks are combined to recreate the response.

Author: >If I'm understanding correctly, it wouldn't just be "the next request" but rather "all requests that follow," is that right?

Correct

This means that a single request can make multiple calls to the `get` or `set` method of `GridDataSourceCache`.

Chunk size is the lowest expected amount of records per request based on `pageSize` from `paginationModel` and `pageSizeOptions` prop.

Because of this, values in the `pageSizeOptions` prop play a big role in the cache hit rate.
It is recommended to have values that are multiples of the lowest value.
Even better if every value is a multiple of the previous value.

> Here are some examples.

Reviewer 2: great examples! They really helped me to understand how all of these parameters work.

1. Best scenario - `pageSizeOptions={[5, 10, 50, 100]}`

   In this case the chunk size is 5, which means that for `pageSize={100}` 20 cache records are stored.

   Retrieving data for any other `pageSize` up to the first 100 records results in a cache hit, since the whole dataset can be made of the existing chunks.

2. Parts of the data missing - `pageSizeOptions={[10, 20, 50]}`

   Loading the first page with the `pageSize={50}` results in 5 cache records.
   This works well with the `pageSize={10}`, but not all the time with `pageSize={20}`.

   Loading the third page with `pageSize={20}` results in a new request being made, even though half of the data is in the cache.

3. Not compatible page sizes - `pageSizeOptions={[7, 15, 40]}`

>    In this situation, the chunk size is 7. Retrieving the first page with `pageSize={15}` creates chunks with `[7, 7, 1]` record(s).

Reviewer 2: - one sentence per line
- I don't think the (s) is necessary

```suggestion
   In this situation, the chunk size is 7. 
   Retrieving the first page with `pageSize={15}` creates chunks split into `[7, 7, 1]` records.
```

>    Loading the second page creates another 3 chunks (again `[7, 7, 1]` record(s)), but now the third chunk from the first request has an overlap of 1 record with the first chunk of the second request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Loading the second page creates 3 new chunks (again `[7, 7, 1]`), but now the third chunk from the first request has an overlap of 1 record with the first chunk of the second request.
```

>    These chunks with 1 record can only be used as a last piece of a request for `pageSize={15}` and are useless in any other case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   These chunks with 1 record can only be used as the last piece of a request for `pageSize={15}` and are useless in all other cases.
```

:::info

> Keep in mind that in the examples above `sortModel` and `filterModel` remained unchanged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the examples above, `sortModel` and `filterModel` remained unchanged.
```
